<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
    <head>
        <meta charset="utf-8" />
        <title>English Language GCSE for AQA: Student Book</title>
        <meta name="DC.rights" content="All rights reserved. No reproduction or distribution of any part of this publication may take place without the express written permission of Cambridge University Press." />
        <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/main_styles.css" type="text/css" />
        <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/other_styles.css" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <section class="container" epub:type="practice">
            <h3 class="question_heading"><span class="blue uppercase">Progress punctuation</span></h3>
            <p>When you write, you need to use punctuation to guide your reader through your words.</p>
            <ol class="nomark">
                <li epub:type="general-problem">
                    <p><span class="icon_color_ball icon_base_smaller">1</span></p>
                    <div epub:type="question">
                        <p>Here is one student&#39;s opening to the task in Activity 7. All the punctuation has been removed. What difficulties do you face when reading it?</p>
                        <blockquote>
                            <p class="andika">waves of dizziness washed over me i could feel the heat of the burning midday sun but could make no sense of it memory returned slowly the lightning spark the crisp crack of metal the terror the panic the silence suddenly it was all clear to me i opened my eyes and like a reluctant witness at the gallows i gazed at the horror that surrounded me</p>
                        </blockquote>
                    </div>
                </li>
                <li epub:type="general-problem">
                    <p><span class="icon_color_ball icon_base_smaller">2</span></p>
                    <div epub:type="question">
                        <p>Now read it with the punctuation. Why does the punctuation make it easier for you to read?</p>
                        <blockquote>
                            <p class="andika">Waves of dizziness washed over me. I could feel the heat of the burning midday sun but could make no sense of it. Memory returned slowly. The lightning spark. The crisp crack of metal. The terror. The panic. The silence. Suddenly it was all clear to me. I opened my eyes and, like a reluctant witness at the gallows, I gazed at the horror that surrounded me.</p>
                        </blockquote>
                    </div>
                    <p epub:type="answer">Good punctuation helps the reader through the writing. A useful way of checking your punctuation is to read your work aloud. If you cannot make clear sense of it, your reader will not be able to.</p>
                </li>
            </ol>
        </section>
    </body>
</html>
