<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"
	xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
	<head>
		<title> Chapter 1: Asides </title>
		<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="day" href="../css/main.css" />
		<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="night" href="../css/theme/night.css" />
		<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="sepia" href="../css/theme/sepia.css" />
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter">
		<section epub:type="chapter" id="P70004858060006F9">
			<header>
				<h1 epub:type="title"><span epub:type="label"><span class="pagebreak" title="5"
							epub:type="pagebreak" id="P70004858060006FA"></span>Chapter </span><span
						epub:type="ordinal">2: </span>Asides</h1>
			</header>
			<section class="frontmatter" id="d6e2738" aria-label="Chapter front">
				<p>Asides are block-level supplemental content that may present in a number of ways. They are
					broken into the following categories:</p>
				<ul>
					<li><p>sidebar</p></li>
					<li><p>footnote</p></li>
					<li><p>endnote</p></li>
					<li><p>marginalia</p></li>
					<li><p>pullquote</p></li>
					<li><p>annotation</p></li>
				</ul>
			</section>
			<section class="bodymatter" id="d6e2772" aria-label="Chapter body">
				<section id="P70004858060006FB" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3 epub:type="title"><span epub:type="ordinal">1.1 </span>Sidebars</h3>
					</header>
					<p>A sidebar is a titled aside that is typically several paragraphs in length and may contain
						images and media and even small titled sections and a practice section at the end. It is
						typically thought of as a "boxed feature", owing to a common design treatment it receives to
						set it apart from the running text. It intrinsically floats; like a typical figure or table,
						it is allowed to be presented away from any text reference. Sidebars commonly have a label
						in addition to a title. </p>
					<aside class="sidebar" id="P70004858060006FC">
						<header>
							<h4 epub:type="title" id="P70004858060006FD"><span epub:type="label">Sidebar
									label</span><a id="P70004858060006FE"></a>Sidebar title</h4>
						</header>
						<p>This is sidebar text. This is sidebar texts. This is sidebar text. This is sidebar text. </p>
						<p>This is sidebar text. This is sidebar text. This is sidebar text. This is sidebar text. </p>
						<p>This is sidebar text. This is sidebar text. This is sidebar text. This is sidebar text. </p>
						<ul>
							<li><p>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, cu quo laudem cetero rationibus, no mei error
									simul.</p></li>
							<li><p>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, cu quo laudem cetero rationibus, no mei error
									simul.</p></li>
							<li><p>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, cu quo laudem cetero rationibus, no mei error
									simul.</p></li>
						</ul>
						<p>This is sidebar text. This is sidebar text. This is sidebar text. This is sidebar text. </p>
						<ol>
							<li><p>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, cu quo laudem cetero rationibus, no mei error
									simul.</p></li>
							<li><p>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, cu quo laudem cetero rationibus, no mei error
									simul.</p>
								<ol>
									<li><p>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, cu quo laudem cetero rationibus, no mei error
											simul.</p></li>
									<li><p>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, cu quo laudem cetero rationibus, no mei error
											simul.</p></li>
									<li><p>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, cu quo laudem cetero rationibus, no mei error
											simul.</p></li>
								</ol>
							</li>
							<li><p>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, cu quo laudem cetero rationibus, no mei error
									simul.</p></li>
							<li><p>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, cu quo laudem cetero rationibus, no mei error
									simul.</p></li>
						</ol>
						<p>This is sidebar text. This is sidebar text. This is a cross reference to <a
								href="#P70004858060006FF"><span epub:type="label">Table </span><span epub:type="label"
									>2.1</span></a> in the sidebar text. This is sidebar text. This is sidebar text. </p>
						<figure class="table" id="P70004858060006FF">
							<figcaption>
								<p class="title"><span epub:type="label">Table </span><span epub:type="ordinal">2.1
									</span>This is the table title</p>
							</figcaption>
							<table class="largetable">
								<thead>
									<tr>
										<th scope="col">Degrees of Hearing Loss</th>
										<th scope="col" colspan="3">pta in dB Based on 0.5, 1, 2 K<sup><a
													href="#P7000485806000700">a</a></sup> hz<sup><a
													href="#P7000485806000701">b</a></sup></th>
									</tr>
									<tr>
										<th> </th>
										<th>Children</th>
										<th> </th>
										<th>Adults</th>
									</tr>
								</thead>
								<tbody>
									<tr>
										<td>Slight to Mild</td>
										<td>21–40</td>
										<td> </td>
										<td>26–40</td>
									</tr>
									<tr>
										<td>Mild to Moderate</td>
										<td>—</td>
										<td>41–55</td>
										<td>—</td>
									</tr>
									<tr>
										<td>Moderate</td>
										<td>—</td>
										<td>56–70</td>
										<td>—</td>
									</tr>
									<tr>
										<td>Severe</td>
										<td>—</td>
										<td>71–90</td>
										<td>—</td>
									</tr>
									<tr>
										<td>Profound</td>
										<td>—</td>
										<td>91 plus</td>
										<td>—</td>
									</tr>
									<tr>
										<td colspan="4">
											<div class="source" id="P7000485806000700">
												<p><sup>a</sup>K = 1000.</p>
											</div>
										</td>
									</tr>
									<tr>
										<td colspan="4">
											<div class="source" id="P7000485806000701">
												<p><sup>b</sup>The three frequencies of 0.5, 1, and 2 KHz are used for
													interpreting audiograms and comparing to SRTs. Higher frequencies,
													including 3 KHz and 4 KHz, should be considered in hearing aid fitting
													decisions and compensation cases.</p>
											</div>
										</td>
									</tr>
								</tbody>
							</table>
						</figure>
						<section epub:type="practice" id="P7000485806000702">
							<header>
								<h5 id="P7000485806000703" epub:type="title"><span epub:type="label">Sidebar Practice
										Section Label</span></h5>
							</header>
							<ol class="practicelist">
								<li class="general-problem" id="P7000485806000704"><div epub:type="question"
										id="P7000485806000705">
										<p>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, cu quo laudem cetero rationibus, no mei error
											simul.</p></div></li>
								<li class="general-problem" id="P7000485806000706"><div epub:type="question"
										id="P7000485806000707">
										<p>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, cu quo laudem cetero rationibus, no mei error
											simul.</p>
									</div>
								</li>
								<li class="general-problem" id="P7000485806000708"><div epub:type="question"
										id="P7000485806000709">
										<p>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, cu quo laudem cetero rationibus, no mei error
											simul.</p>
									</div>
								</li>
								<li class="general-problem" id="P700048580600070A"><div epub:type="question"
										id="P700048580600070B">
										<p>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, cu quo laudem cetero rationibus, no mei error
											simul.</p>
									</div>
								</li>
							</ol>
							<div class="note"><p>Note: This is note text for the sidebar.</p></div>
							<p>note is used for identifying the short author notes (typically with "note:" as
								beginning text) provided typically at bottom of tables, figures, and sidebars and
								sometimes at beginning of sections</p>
						</section>
					</aside>
				</section>
				<section id="P700048580600070C" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3 epub:type="title"><span epub:type="ordinal">1.2 </span>Footnotes</h3>
					</header>
					<p>A footnote is an aside associated with a specific range of text. It is indicated by a marker
						in the text known as the footnote reference, typically a raised number or symbol. The
						presentation of the footnote itself is largely dependent on the presentation medium. In
						print, the footnote appears at the bottom of a page or of an object. In a digital product,
						the footnote reference is typically a hyperlink which may launch a popup window or re-direct
						the user to another location in the publication. The hyperlink to the footnote receives a
						special class, "noteref footnote", so that software applications and designers can treat
						them uniquely from other hyperlinks.</p>
					<p>This is normal body text containing footnote reference.<a class="noteref noteref_footnote"
							epub:type="noteref" id="r__P700048580600071D" href="#P700048580600071D">1</a> This is
						normal body text.</p><aside epub:type="footnote" id="P700048580600071D"><p><span
								epub:type="ordinal"><a href="#r__P700048580600071D">1</a></span> This is footnote
							text. Depending on the reader, the footnote may display in different formats.
								<span>&lt;footnote in standard browser presents following paragraph containing
								footnote reference. In EPUB Reading System desired presentation is for footnote to
								appear in popup when user clicks on footnote reference&gt;</span></p></aside>
				</section>
				<section id="P700048580600070D" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3 epub:type="title"><span epub:type="ordinal">1.3 </span>Endnotes</h3>
					</header>
					<section id="P70004858060000000000000002226F6" class="level2">
						<header>
							<h4 epub:type="title"><span epub:type="ordinal">1.3.1 </span>Chapter Endnotes</h4>
						</header>
						<p>An endnote is an aside associated with a specific range of text. As with the footnote, it
							is indicated by a marker in the text known as the footnote reference, typically a raised
							number or symbol, and the presentation of the endnote itself is dependent on the
							presentation medium. Whereas a footnote in print appears at the bottom of a page or
							object, an endnote typically appears at the end of a chapter or the product itself. In a
							digital product, the endnote reference is a hyperlink which may launch a popup window or
							re-direct the user to another location in the publication. The hyperlink to the endnote
							receives a special class, "noteref endnote", so that software applications and designers
							can treat them uniquely from other hyperlinks. In the example below, the endnote
							reference resolves to an endnote section at the end of this chapter.</p>
						<p>This is body text containing an endnote reference<a class="noteref noteref_rearnote"
								epub:type="noteref" id="r__P700048580600071A" href="#P700048580600071A">1</a>. It
							should link to end-of-chapter endnotes. This is normal body text. This is normal body
							text. This is normal body text. This is normal body text. This is body text containing an
							endnote reference<a class="noteref noteref_rearnote" epub:type="noteref"
								id="r__P700048580600071B" href="#P700048580600071B">2</a>. It should link to
							end-of-chapter endnotes. This is normal body text. This is normal body text. This is
							normal body text. This is normal body text. This is body text containing an endnote
								reference<a class="noteref noteref_rearnote" epub:type="noteref"
								id="r__P700048580600071C" href="#P700048580600071C">3</a>. It should link to
							end-of-chapter endnotes. This is normal body text. This is normal body text. This is
							normal body text. This is normal body text. </p>
					</section>
					<section id="P70004858060000000000000001116F6" class="level2">
						<header>
							<h4 epub:type="title"><span epub:type="ordinal">1.3.2 </span>Book Endnotes</h4>
						</header>
						<p>Endnotes may also appear in the product backmatter. The example below links to product
							backmatter endnotes.</p>
						<p>This is body text containing an endnote reference<a class="noteref noteref_rearnote"
								epub:type="noteref" id="r__P70004858060007D3" href="endnotes.xhtml#P70004858060007D3"
								>1</a>. It should link to product endnotes. This is normal body text. This is normal
							body text. This is normal body text. This is normal body text.</p>
						<blockquote><p>This is a blockquote containing an endnote reference<a
									class="noteref noteref_rearnote" epub:type="noteref" id="r__P70004858060007D4"
									href="endnotes.xhtml#P70004858060007D4">2</a>. It should link to product endnotes.
								It should format as dark green. This is blockquote text. This is text containing an
								endnote reference<a class="noteref noteref_rearnote" epub:type="noteref"
									id="r__P70004858060007D5" href="endnotes.xhtml#P70004858060007D5">3</a>. It should
								link to product endnotes. This is normal body text. This is normal body text. This is
								normal body text. This is normal body text. </p></blockquote>
					</section>
				</section>
				<section id="P700048580600070E" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3 epub:type="title"><span epub:type="ordinal">1.4 </span>Marginalia</h3>
					</header>
					<p>Marginalia is an aside that is typically short in length, a single paragraph at most. Unlike
						a footnote or endnote, there is no visible marginalia reference in the text. Like a foonote,
						however, sometimes marginalia is highly connected to a span of text and is amplifying that
						text or commenting on it in some ways. The association with the text is usually communicated
						through vertically aligning the marginalia in the "margins" of the page with the text to
						which it corresponds. Other times, marginalia is more like a very small sidebar–somewhat
						related to the running text but not directly connected. In those cases, the marginalia has
						some flexibility as to where it positions. Many EPUB Reading Systems/CSS design do not have
						a good rendering model for marginalia, as some do not provide support for rendering a
						running text with a margin of art or text running alongside of it in the margins.
						Consequently the marginal comment ends up in the running text following a paragraph.</p>
					<aside id="P700048580600070F"><p>This is the marginalia text. This is the marginalia text. This
							is the marginalia text.</p></aside>
					<p>marginalia in current CSS presents in running text following paragraph it should sit next
						to. This lessens its effectiveness in communicating the author's point and sometimes even
						confuses the reader. Marginalia is more effective when the CSS and Reading System can
						present it in a minor column setting alongside the text to which it is an aside. Some have
						suggested treating marginalia as a popup. If Reading System cannot present marginalia in a
						format that clearly communicates its relation to content, authors and designers may want to
						consider other methods of communicating the point</p>
					<p> Sometimes authors place glossary definitions of keyterms in the margins instead of in the
						running text. We currently code those glossary definitions as marginalia to instruct the
						rendering software of the intent to place the glossary definitions in the margin.</p>
					<aside id="P7000485806000710" aria-label="glossary">
						<section epub:type="glossary" id="P7000485806000711" aria-label="definitions">
							<dl class="glossentrylist">
								<dt epub:type="glossterm" id="P7000485806000712"><dfn>glossterm text</dfn></dt>
								<dd epub:type="glossdef">
									<p>This is gloss definition text. This is gloss definition text. This is gloss
										definition text that should set on same line as glossterm.</p>
								</dd>
							</dl>
						</section>
					</aside>
				</section>
				<section id="P7000485806000713" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3 epub:type="title"><span epub:type="ordinal">1.5 </span>Pullquote</h3>
					</header>
					<p>A pull quote (also known as a lift-out quote) is a quotation or excerpt from an article that
						is typically placed in a larger or distinctive typeface on the same page/screen, serving to
						entice readers into an article or to highlight a key topic (source:
						http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pullquote)</p>
					<p>This is normal body text preceding the pullquote. This is normal body text preceding the
						pullquote. </p>
					<aside epub:type="pullquote" id="P7000485806000714"><p>This is pullquote text. This is
							pullquote text. This is pullquote text. This is pullquote text. This is pullquote
							text.</p></aside>
					<p>This is normal body text following the pullquote. This is normal body text following the
							pullquote.<span class="pagebreak" title="6" epub:type="pagebreak" id="P7000485806000715"
						></span></p>
				</section>
				<section id="P7000485806000716" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3 epub:type="title"><span epub:type="ordinal">1.5a </span>Annotation</h3>
					</header>
					<p>An annotation is a block-level note, analysis or commentary that is made regarding the text.
						It may take the form of notes to the teacher or to the student. A reference to the
						annotation is inserted into text with a hyperlink having a class of annoref. aside
						class="annotation annotation_instructor" represents an instructor's annotation.</p>
					<p>This is body text with annotation reference <a class="annoref" epub:type="noteref"
							href="#P7000485806000717">4</a> .... <a class="annoref" epub:type="noteref"
							href="#P7000485806000718">5</a></p>
					<aside class="annotation annotation_instructor" epub:type="help" id="P7000485806000717">
						<header>
							<h4 epub:type="title"><span epub:type="ordinal">4 </span><span epub:type="label"
									>Analyze</span></h4>
						</header>
						<p>This is the instructor's annotation...</p>
					</aside>
					<aside class="annotation" epub:type="help" id="P7000485806000718">
						<header>
							<h4 epub:type="title"><span epub:type="ordinal">5 </span><span epub:type="label"
									>Points</span></h4>
						</header>
						<p>This is a regular annotation</p>
					</aside>
				</section>
			</section>
			<section class="backmatter" id="d6e3272" aria-label="Chapter back">
				<section epub:type="rearnotes" id="P7000485806000719" class="rearnotes level1">
					<header>
						<h3 epub:type="title"><span epub:type="ordinal">1.6 </span>Chapter Endnote List</h3>
					</header>
					<ol class="rearnotelist">
						<li epub:type="rearnote" id="P700048580600071A">
							<p><span epub:type="ordinal"><a href="#r__P700048580600071A">1</a></span> This is chapter
								endnote text. This is chapter endnote text. This is chapter endnote text. This is
								chapter endnote text. This is chapter endnote text. </p>
						</li>
						<li epub:type="rearnote" id="P700048580600071B">
							<p><span epub:type="ordinal"><a href="#r__P700048580600071B">2</a></span> This is chapter
								endnote text. This is chapter endnote text. This is chapter endnote text. This is
								chapter endnote text. This is chapter endnote text. </p>
						</li>
						<li epub:type="rearnote" id="P700048580600071C">
							<p><span epub:type="ordinal"><a href="#r__P700048580600071C">3</a></span> This is chapter
								endnote text. This is chapter endnote text. This is chapter endnote text. This is
								chapter endnote text. This is chapter endnote text. </p>
						</li>
					</ol>
				</section>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
