<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 7: Inline</title>
		<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="day" href="../css/main.css" />
		<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="night" href="../css/theme/night.css" />
		<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="sepia" href="../css/theme/sepia.css" />
	</head>
	<body class="fixed" epub:type="bodymatter">
		<section class="chapter" epub:type="chapter" id="P700048580600077C">
			<header>
				<h1 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="pagebreak" title="19" epub:type="pagebreak" id="P7000485806000968"/><span class="label" epub:type="label">Chapter </span><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">7: </span>Inline</h1>
			</header>
			<section class="bodymatter" id="d6e6310" aria-label="Chapter body">
				<section id="P700048580600077D" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">7.1 </span>a</h3>
					</header>
					<p>See Chapter on <a href="chapter04.xhtml#P7000485806000731">Linking</a> for examples</p>
				</section>
				<section id="P700048580600077E" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">7.2 </span>abbr</h3>
					</header>
					<p><abbr>ABBREVIATION TEXT HERE. Current CSS is not rendering abbreviated text differently.</abbr> This is normal text.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="P700048580600077F" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">7.3 </span>b</h3>
					</header>
					<p>Use span class=strong" for most cases. Use b only when the rendering must be bold and no other semantic markup applies</p>
					<p><b>This text</b> that is marked with b tag and should appear as bold.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="P7000485806000780" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">7.4 </span>br</h3>
					</header>
					<p>The <code>br</code> element represents a line break.</p>
					<p>This is text with a forced linebreak right here<br /> This text starts on next line</p>
				</section>
				<section id="P7000485806000781" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">7.5 </span>cite</h3>
					</header>
					<p>The cite element represents the cited title of a work; for example, the title of a book mentioned within the main text flow of a document.</p>
					<p><cite>This is citation text. Citation text is rendering as roman with current CSS.</cite> Need to update PXE Class to distinguish when <code>cite</code> should render as roman vs as ital.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="P7000485806000782" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">7.6 </span>code</h3>
					</header>
					<p>The code element represents a fragment of computer code. This could be an XML element name, a filename, a computer program, or any other string that a computer would recognize.</p>
					<p><code>This is the text marked as code. It should set smaller than normal text and be in serif font. </code> This is normal text following it</p>
				</section>
				<section id="P7000485806000783" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">7.7 </span>em</h3>
					</header>
					<p>em represents vocal editorial emphasis. Compare em to span class="emphasis", which represents typographic emphasis to make text standout but has no specific editorial implication, other than indicating importance.</p>
					<p>This is body text with <em>author-emphasized text</em>. The phrase "author-emphasized text" should render in italics.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="P7000485806000784" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">7.8 </span>i</h3>
					</header>
					<p>Use only when the rendering must be in italic, vocal emphasis is not implied, and when the author's meaning will be lost if italic is not used. Contrast usage with em and span class="emphasis".</p>
					<p>This is body text with <i>some text marked as italic</i>. The phrase "some text marked as italic" should render in italic using current CSS.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="P7000485806000785" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">7.9 </span>img</h3>
					</header>
					<p>See chapter on <a class="xref" href="chapter03.xhtml#P700048580600071E">Figures and Tables</a> for inline image not wrapped by figure or informalfigure</p>
				</section>
				<section id="P7000485806000786" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">7.10 </span>kbd</h3>
					</header>
					<p>The kbd element represents user input (typically keyboard input, although it may also be used to represent other input, such as voice commands).</p>
					<p><kbd>This is the keyboard text. It should set smaller than body text and in serif font.</kbd> This is normal body text. This is normal body text. </p>
				</section>
				<section id="P7000485806000787" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">7.11 </span>small</h3>
					</header>
					<p>Use small when content must be set smaller than current context for semantic purposes, e.g., as a side comment.</p>
					<p><small>This is the text set as small. It should be same font but smaller.</small> This is normal body text.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="P7000485806000788" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">7.12 </span>emphasis</h3>
					</header>
					<p>span class="emphasis" is typically rendered as italic but may also be rendered as a different color or typeface to add further emphasis. Contrast with HTML5's em element, which indicates vocal emphasis and HTML5's i element, which should be used only when text must render as italic to preserve the author's meaning and there is no other appropriate semantic tagging.</p>
					<p><span class="emphasis">This is the text marked as span class="emphasis. In regular body text, it should render as italic. In different contexts, it may have different formatting effects.</span>. This is normal body text.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="P7000485806000789" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">7.13 </span>keyword</h3>
					</header>
					<p>When a glossary entry is not present, the keyword in bodymatter is not hyperlinked to anything and is marked as a (span class="keyword") </p>
					<p>This is the <span class="keyword" id="P700048580600078A">keyword</span> marked as a span not as a hyperlink. It will format the same (bold) but it will not have any hyperlinks and should not have the "information" icon to click on. This is normal text.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="P700048580600078B" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">7.14 </span>label</h3>
					</header>
					<p>span class="label" represents how an element or class is referenced (i.e., is labeled). For example, if a figure is called an "Exhibit", then "Exhibit" is the figure's label. Any time an element is referenced by its label, the reference is marked with span class="label". In the example below, "Saving the World" is the label.</p>
					<aside class="sidebar" id="P700048580600078C">
						<header>
							<h4 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="label" epub:type="label">This is the sidebar label</span> This is the sidebar title</h4>
						</header>
						<p> The sidebar label should set larger than the sidebar title and on a line of its own.</p>
						<p> This is aside text. The entire aside should set with a vertical bar along the left. </p>
					</aside>
				</section>
				<section id="P700048580600078D" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">7.15 </span>leadin</h3>
					</header>
					<p>leadin is heavily emphasized text at the start of a title, or lead-in of a paragraph. leadin is typically rendered as bold but may also be rendered as a different color or typeface to add further typographic emphasis.</p>
					<ul>
						<li><p><span class="leadin">This is the leadin text at beginning of paragraph of listitem. For this CSS, it should be bold and and italic.</span>This is normal body text within a listitem. In other contexts, a span class="leadin" may format differently.</p></li>
					</ul>
				</section>
				<section id="P700048580600078E" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">7.16 </span>number</h3>
					</header>
					<p>span class="number" represents how an element or class is numbered. For example, if a figure is referenced as "Exhibit 2.2", then 2.2 is the figure's span class="number" (while "Exhibit" is the figure's label). Any time an element is referenced by its number, the number portion of the reference is marked with span class="number".</p>
					<p>This is the hyperlink to <a class="xref" href="chapter04.xhtml#P7000485806000731"><span class="label" epub:type="label">chapter </span><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">4</span></a>. When you click on the link, it should jump to Chapter 4. The cross-ref to the chapter should have a special blue icon.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="P700048580600078F" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">7.17 </span>smallcaps</h3>
					</header>
					<p>smallcaps is a typographic style that sets uppercase letters at lowercase letters height. smallcaps are typically stylistic rather than semantic markup</p>
					<aside class="vignette">
						<p><span class="smallcaps">This text is all smallcaps with an initial cap</span>. A real world example would be: At 5<span class="smallcaps">am</span> Sam gets up to go to work everyday. </p>
					</aside>
				</section>
				<section id="P7000485806000790" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">7.18 </span>strong (element)</h3>
					</header>
					<p>Use to indicate strong emphasis. is typically rendered as bold but may also be rendered as a different color or typeface to add further typographic emphasis. Contrast strong with span class="emphasis", which is a lighter form of emphasis and is typically rendered as italics. Use span class="strong" only when a more semantic or structural markup--e.g., span class="leadtext", span class="title", a class="keyword"--is not appropriate.</p>
					<p><strong>this text</strong> is marked as strong so it should render bold. This is normal body text. </p>
				</section>
				<section id="P7000485806000791" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">7.19 </span>firstname, lastname</h3>
					</header>
					<p>first name and last in author block</p>
					<div class="author">
						<p>
							<span class="firstname">
								<span class="strong">First name should render in bold in author block</span>
							</span>
							<span class="lastname">
								<span class="strong">Last name should render in bold in author block</span>
							</span>
						</p>
					</div>
				</section>
				<section id="P7000485806000792" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">7.20 </span>inlineequation</h3>
					</header>
					<p>inlineequation is an inline math equation.</p>
					<p> This problem could have been done another way by simplifying <span class="inlineequation">
							<math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline">
								<mrow>
									<mrow>
										<mfrac>
											<mrow>
												<mn>1</mn>
											</mrow>
											<mrow>
												<mfrac>
													<mrow>
														<mn>3</mn>
													</mrow>
													<mrow>
														<mn>4</mn>
													</mrow>
												</mfrac>
											</mrow>
										</mfrac>
									</mrow>
								</mrow>
							</math>
						</span> first. </p>
				</section>
				<section id="P7000485806000793" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">7.21 </span>speaker</h3>
					</header>
					<p>Speaker is part of dialog. The markup for dialog is about to change.</p>
					<div class="dialogue">
						<div class="speech"><div class="persona"><p>Speaker </p></div>
							<div class="line">
								<p>speech text speech text speech text speech text </p>
							</div>
							<div class="line">
								<p>second line of speech text speech text speech text speech text </p>
							</div>
							<div class="line">
								<p>third line of speech text speech text speech text speech text </p>
							</div>
						</div>
						<div class="speech"><div class="persona"><p>Speaker </p></div>
							<div class="line">
								<p>speech text speech text speech text speech text </p>
							</div>
							<div class="line">
								<p>second line of speech text speech text speech text speech text </p>
							</div>
						</div>
						<div class="speech"><div class="persona"><p>Speaker </p></div>
							<div class="line">
								<p>speech text speech text speech text speech text </p>
							</div>
						</div>
					</div>
				</section>
				<section id="P7000485806000794" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">7.22 </span>write-on line</h3>
					</header>
					<p>span class="wol" represents a write-on line and is typically used in assessment content.</p>
					<p>The text that follows is a write-on line. It should present with no text above it and with a continuous underscore: <span class="wol">           </span>.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="P7000485806000795" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">7.23 </span>index-term</h3>
					</header>
					<p>See <a class="xref" href="subject-index.xhtml#P70004858060007BB">index chapter</a> for this example.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="P7000485806000796" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">7.24 </span>index-locator-range</h3>
					</header>
					<p>See <a class="xref" href="subject-index.xhtml#P70004858060007BB">index chapter</a> for this example.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="P7000485806000797" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">7.25 </span>index-xref-related</h3>
					</header>
					<p>See <a class="xref" href="subject-index.xhtml#P70004858060007BB">index chapter</a> for this example.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="P7000485806000798" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">7.26 </span>index-xref-preferred</h3>
					</header>
					<p>See <a class="xref" href="subject-index.xhtml#P70004858060007BB">index chapter</a> for this example.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="P7000485806000799" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">7.27 </span>url-example</h3>
					</header>
					<p>Use when the author is describing a hypothetical example–e.g., yourwebsite.com, which should not resolve to anything but might be specially formatted.</p>
					<p>This is the example website marked span url-example: <span class="url-example">yourwebsite.com</span>. It will not appear as a hyperlink in text.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="P700048580600079A" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">7.28 </span>strong (class)</h3>
					</header>
					<p>span class="strong" is redundant with element strong and will be retired in future release.</p>
					<p>Use span class="strong" only when a more semantic or structural markup--e.g., span class="leadtext", span class="title", a class="keyword"--is not appropriate.</p>
					<p><span class="strong">This text</span> is marked as class="strong". It should render as bold in this CSS</p>
					<p><span class="strong"><span class="emphasis">This text</span></span> is marked as class="strong"/class="emphasis". It should render as boldital in this CSS</p>
				</section>
				<section id="P700048580600079B" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">7.29 </span>sub</h3>
					</header>
					<p>Per the spec, sub should be used only to "mark up typographical conventions with specific meanings, not for typographical presentation for presentation's sake." </p>
					<p><sub>This text is marked as sub.</sub> This is normal text.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="P700048580600079C" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">7.30 </span>sup</h3>
					</header>
					<p>sup should be used only to "mark up typographical conventions with specific meanings, not for typographical presentation for presentation's sake."</p>
					<p><sup>This is superscript text. It sets raised above the baseline and smaller than normal text</sup>. This is normal text.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="P700048580600079D" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">7.31 </span>u</h3>
					</header>
					<p>Use <code>u</code> only when you must specifically apply underline to convey the author's meaning vs using it as an arbitrary design choice for emphasis.</p>
					<p><u>This text is underlined.</u> This text is normal.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="P700048580600079E" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">7.32 </span>doubleunderscore</h3>
					</header>
					<p>doubleunderscore (double underline) is content that has two underlines spanning beneath the text. It is sometimes used to markup certain phrases of text.</p>
					<p><span class="doubleunderscore">This text is double-underlined.</span> This text is normal. The CSS is not currently rendering the text as double-underlined. It will appear as normal text.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="P700048580600079F" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">7.33 </span>s</h3>
					</header>
					<p>Use this element to strike out text that is not needed.</p>
					<p><s>This text is struckout.</s> This text is normal.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="P70004858060007A0" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">7.34 </span>var</h3>
					</header>
					<p>The var element represents a variable. </p>
					<p>This is <var>var text</var>. The current CSS renders it as italic.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="P70004858060007A1" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">7.35 </span>Other Examples</h3>
					</header>
					<p>This is body text. This is body text.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="P70004858060007A2" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">7.36 </span>Pagebreak</h3>
					</header>
					<p>A pagebreak is an empty element indicating where a page break occurred in a print version of the content.</p>
					<p><span>&lt;span id="pagei" class="pagebreak" title="i"/&gt;</span>Assessing Learners with Special Needs...</p>
				</section>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
