<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:svg="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 1: Lists</title>
		<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="day" href="../css/main.css" />
		<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="night" href="../css/theme/night.css" />
		<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="sepia" href="../css/theme/sepia.css" />
	</head>
	<body class="fixed" epub:type="bodymatter">
		<section class="chapter" epub:type="chapter" id="P70004858060006B8">
			<header>
				<h1 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="label" epub:type="label">Chapter </span><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">1: </span>Lists</h1>
			</header>
			<section class="frontmatter" id="d6e1362" aria-label="Chapter front">
				<p>Lists are one of the most commonly used structures to represent author ideas, and they can appear in almost any context in PXE. PXE uses <span class="keyword">ol</span> and <span class="keyword">ul</span> to represent ordered and unorderedlists respectively and treats many Pearson structures as forms of an orderedlist.</p>
				<p>The lists in this chapter are organized so that they appear in the contexts in which they would appear in a typical chapter.</p>
				<p><span class="leadin">Note </span>Besides appearing in chapter frontmatter, bodymatter, and backmatter running text, lists also often appear nested in other structures, e.g., sidebars, figures, and tables. See the individual chapters on asides, figures, and tables for examples of lists formatted in those contexts.</p>
			</section>
			<section class="bodymatter" id="d6e1382" aria-label="Chapter body">
				<nav class="toc" epub:type="toc" id="P70004858060006B9">
					<header>
						<h3 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">1.1 </span><span class="label" epub:type="label">TOC List</span></h3>
					</header>
					<p>Need to create samples for all the toc types. chapter toc here. Put part toc in part sample chapter and product level toc in product chapter.</p>
					<div class="tocchapterbodymatter">
						<ol class="tocentrylist">
							<li class="toclevel1"><p><a href="#P70004858060006B9"><span class="title" epub:type="title">TOC Lists </span><span class="pageref" epub:type="pagebreak">1</span></a></p></li>
							<li class="toclevel1"><p><a href="#P70004858060006BA"><span class="title" epub:type="title">Learning Objective List </span><span class="pageref" epub:type="pagebreak">2</span></a></p></li>
							<li class="toclevel1"><p><a href="#P70004858060006C3"><span class="title" epub:type="title">Learning Objective List (Example #2) </span><span class="pageref" epub:type="pagebreak">3</span></a></p></li>
							<li class="toclevel1"><p><a href="#P70004858060006D3"><span class="title" epub:type="title">Step List (procedures) </span><span class="pageref" epub:type="pagebreak">4</span></a></p></li>
							<li class="toclevel1"><p><a href="#P70004858060006D4"><span class="title" epub:type="title">Unordered Lists </span><span class="pageref" epub:type="pagebreak">4</span></a></p></li>
						</ol>
					</div>
					<div class="tocchapterbackmatter">
						<ol class="tocentrylist">
							<li class="toclevel1"><p><a href="#P70004858060006D6"><span class="title" epub:type="title"> TOC Entry text: End Notes </span><span class="pageref" epub:type="pagebreak">4</span></a></p></li>
							<li class="toclevel1"><p><a href="#P70004858060006D8"><span class="title" epub:type="title">Keyword List </span><span class="pageref" epub:type="pagebreak">4</span></a></p></li>
							<li class="toclevel1"><p><a href="#P70004858060006DD"><span class="title" epub:type="title">Assessment Lists </span><span class="pageref" epub:type="pagebreak">4</span></a></p></li>
							<li class="toclevel1"><p><a href="#P70004858060006E7"><span class="title" epub:type="title">TOC Entry text: Bibliographic List </span><span class="pageref" epub:type="pagebreak">4</span></a></p></li>
							<li class="toclevel1"><p><a href="#P70004858060006EA"><span class="title" epub:type="title">TOC Entry text: Answer Lists </span><span class="pageref" epub:type="pagebreak">4</span></a></p></li>
						</ol>
					</div>
				</nav>
				<section epub:type="learning-objectives" id="P70004858060006BA" class="objectiveset level1">
					<header>
						<h3 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">1.2 </span><span class="label" epub:type="label">Learning Objectives List</span><span class="pagebreak" title="2" epub:type="pagebreak" id="P70004858060006BB"></span></h3>
					</header>
					<p>Learning objectives are modeled as an orderedlist and are typically contained in the chapter frontmatter in a section class="objectiveset". Their default rendering CSS rendering is to be numbered with arabic numerals but the list styling can be modified in any number of ways to suit a product's needs</p>
					<p>After completing this chapter, you should be able to:</p>
					<ol class="objectivelist">
						<li class="objective" epub:type="learning-objective" id="P70004858060006BC">
							<p>This is learning objective text.</p>
						</li>
						<li class="objective" epub:type="learning-objective" id="P70004858060006BD">
							<p>Identify the purposes of health care facilities.</p>
						</li>
						<li class="objective" epub:type="learning-objective" id="P70004858060006BE">
							<p>List and describe different types of health care facilities.</p>
						</li>
						<li class="objective" epub:type="learning-objective" id="P70004858060006BF">
							<p>Describe a typical organizational structure of a health care facility and explain how the nursing assistant fits into this structure.</p>
						</li>
						<li class="objective" epub:type="learning-objective" id="P70004858060006C0">
							<p>Describe the three most common ways nursing care can be organized.</p>
						</li>
						<li class="objective" epub:type="learning-objective" id="P70004858060006C1">
							<p>Explain what a care plan is and how it is used.</p>
						</li>
						<li class="objective" epub:type="learning-objective" id="P70004858060006C2">
							<p>List the main responsibilities of the nursing assistant.</p>
						</li>
					</ol>
				</section>
				<section epub:type="learning-objectives" id="P70004858060006C3" class="objectiveset level1">
					<header>
						<h3 class="title" epub:type="title" id="P70004858060006C4"><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">1.3 </span><span class="label" epub:type="label">Learning Objectives List (Example #2)</span><span class="pagebreak" title="3" epub:type="pagebreak" id="P70004858060006C5"></span></h3>
					</header>
					<p><i>Sometimes objectives are ordered but "un-numbered" (where "un-numbered" means both not numbered and not bulleted. The PXE shorthand for suppressing numbers and bullets from a list is to add the class="nomark" to the list. This example shows un-numbered objectives as well as an introductory sentence that is marked as span class="leadin", which adds design emphasis.</i></p>
					<p><span class="leadin">This is a leadin paragraph to the objectives marked as span class leadin and should format bold using current CSS:</span></p>
					<ol class="objectivelist ol_none">
						<li class="objective" epub:type="learning-objective" id="P70004858060006C6">
							<p>This is learning objective text.</p>
						</li>
						<li class="objective" epub:type="learning-objective" id="P70004858060006C7">
							<p>Exciting recent developments in the computer field.</p>
						</li>
						<li class="objective" epub:type="learning-objective" id="P70004858060006C8">
							<p>Computer hardware, software and networking basics.</p>
						</li>
						<li class="objective" epub:type="learning-objective" id="P70004858060006C9">
							<p>The data hierarchy.</p>
						</li>
						<li class="objective" epub:type="learning-objective" id="P70004858060006CA">
							<p>The different types of programming languages.</p>
						</li>
						<li class="objective" epub:type="learning-objective" id="P70004858060006CB">
							<p>Basic object-technology concepts.</p>
						</li>
						<li class="objective" epub:type="learning-objective" id="P70004858060006CC">
							<p>The importance of the Internet and the web.</p>
						</li>
						<li class="objective" epub:type="learning-objective" id="P70004858060006CD">
							<p>A typical Java program-development environment.</p>
						</li>
						<li class="objective" epub:type="learning-objective" id="P70004858060006CE">
							<p>To test-drive a Java application.</p>
						</li>
						<li class="objective" epub:type="learning-objective" id="P70004858060006CF">
							<p>Some key recent software technologies.</p>
						</li>
						<li class="objective" epub:type="learning-objective" id="P70004858060006D0">
							<p>How computers can help you make a difference.</p>
						</li>
					</ol>
					<p>The following is a variation on the objectivelist. The list contains span class="number" so the CSS should not generate additional numbers</p>
					<ol class="objectivelist dynamiclist">
						<li class="objective" epub:type="learning-objective" id="P70004858060006D1">
							<p><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">1.1 </span>This is learning objective text.</p>
						</li>
						<li class="objective" epub:type="learning-objective" id="P70004858060006D2">
							<p><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">1.2 </span>Exciting recent developments in the computer field.</p>
						</li>
					</ol>
				</section>
				<section id="P70004858060006D3" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">1.4 </span>Step List (procedures)</h3>
					</header>
					<p>A list of operations to be performed in a well-defined sequence</p>
					<section class="procedure" id="d6e1674">
						<header>
							<h4 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="label" epub:type="label">Procedures</span></h4>
						</header>
						<ol class="steplist">
							<li class="step">
								<p>This is a steplist item para. It should render with arabic numerals with default CSS and the paragraphs should hang.</p>
							</li>
							<li class="step">
								<p>This is a steplist item para. It should render with arabic numerals with default CSS and the paragraphs should hang.</p>
							</li>
						</ol>
					</section>
					<section class="procedure" id="d6e1697">
						<header>
							<h4 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="label" epub:type="label">Procedures</span></h4>
						</header>
						<ol class="steplist dynamiclist">
							<li class="step">
								<p>This is a steplist marked as a dynamiclist where the steplist is marked as ol with class="dynamiclist" so that CSS does not automatically generate numbers.</p>
							</li>
							<li class="step">
								<div>
									<ol class="steplist dynamiclist">
										<li class="step">
											<p><span class="label" epub:type="label">Step </span><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">1. </span>This is steplist listitem text. It does not hang on a list when the markup contains the numbering instead of the browser due to design of current CSS.</p>
										</li>
										<li class="step">
											<p><span class="label" epub:type="label">Step </span><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">2. </span>This is steplist listitem text. It does not hang on a list when the markup contains the numbering instead of the browser due to design of current CSS.</p>
										</li>
									</ol>
								</div>
							</li>
						</ol>
					</section>
				</section>
				<section id="P70004858060006D4" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="pagebreak" title="4" epub:type="pagebreak" id="P70004858060006D5"/><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">1.5 </span>Unordered Lists</h3>
					</header>
					<p>Unorderedlists are expected to be displayed as one of the following:</p>
					<ul>
						<li><p>un-numbered (meaning no numbers or bullets), class="nomark"</p></li>
						<li><p>bulleted</p></li>

					</ul>
					<p>The key characteristic of a ul is not so much that it is bulleted or un-numbered but that its order does not matter. If a list's order matters, then it should be marked as an ol, even if presentationally the author prefers no numbers or letters.</p>
					<section class="listgroup" id="d6e1770">
						<header>
							<h4 class="title" epub:type="title">Un-numbered list <span>listgroup title</span></h4>
						</header>
						<ul class="nomark">
							<li><p><span class="leadin">Formatted Leadin Text: </span>Un-marked list item text because ul is marked as class="nomark".</p></li>
							<li><p><span class="leadin">Unrealistic Belief: </span>I must help clients solve all their problems.</p></li>
							<li><p><span class="leadin">Reasonable Expectation: </span>If all goes well, I may make a good-sized dent in a problem or two and the client will continue to progress when the relationship ends.</p></li>
						</ul>
					</section>
					<section class="listgroup" id="d6e1800">
						<header>
							<h4 class="title" epub:type="title">Bulleted list <span>listgroup title</span></h4>
						</header>
						<ul>
							<li><p>Regular ul list with no special class formats as a default with a bullet and text that sets with a hanging indent</p></li>
							<li><p>Regular ul list with no special class formats as a default with a bullet and text that sets with a hanging indent</p></li>
							<li><p>Regular ul list with no special class formats as a default with a bullet and text that sets with a hanging indent</p></li>

						</ul>
					</section>
					<section class="listgroup" id="d6e1823">
						<header>
							<h4 class="title" epub:type="title">Multiple lists nested <span>listgroup title</span></h4>
						</header>
						<ul>
							<li><p>Regular ul list with no special class formats as a default with a bullet and text that sets with a hanging indent</p>
								<ul>
									<li><p>Nested regular ul list with no special class formats as a default with a bullet and text that sets with a hanging indent and indented from the first level listitems</p></li>
									<li><p>Nested regular ul list with no special class formats as a default with a bullet and text that sets with a hanging indent and indented from the first level listitems</p></li>
									<li><p>Nested regular ul list with no special class formats as a default with a bullet and text that sets with a hanging indent and indented from the first level listitems</p></li>

								</ul>
							</li>
							<li><p>Regular ul list with no special class formats as a default with a bullet and text that sets with a hanging indent</p>
								<ul>
									<li><p>Nested regular ul list with no special class formats as a default with a bullet and text that sets with a hanging indent and indented from the first level listitems</p></li>
									<li><p>Nested regular ul list with no special class formats as a default with a bullet and text that sets with a hanging indent and indented from the first level listitems</p></li>
									<li><p>Nested regular ul list with no special class formats as a default with a bullet and text that sets with a hanging indent and indented from the first level listitems</p></li>
								</ul>
							</li>
							<li><p>Regular ul list with no special class formats as a default with a bullet and text that sets with a hanging indent</p>
								<ul>
									<li><p>Nested regular ul list with no special class formats as a default with a bullet and text that sets with a hanging indent and indented from the first level listitems</p></li>
									<li><p>Nested regular ul list with no special class formats as a default with a bullet and text that sets with a hanging indent and indented from the first level listitems</p></li>
									<li><p>Nested regular ul list with no special class formats as a default with a bullet and text that sets with a hanging indent and indented from the first level listitems</p></li>

								</ul>
							</li>
						</ul>
					</section>
				</section>
			</section>
			<section class="backmatter" id="d6e1895" aria-label="Chapter back">
				<section id="P70004858060006D6" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">1.6 </span>Endnotes List</h3></header>
					<p>See <a class="xref" href="chapter02.xhtml#P700048580600070D"><span class="label" epub:type="label">Section </span><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">2.3</span></a> on Asides for Endnote List example. Clicking on the the preceding cross-reference should resolve to Chapter 2, section 2.3</p>
					<section id="P70004858060006D7" class="level2">
						<header>
							<h4 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">1.6.1 </span>Endnotes List</h4>
						</header>
						<p>See <a class="xref" href="endnotes.xhtml#P70004858060007D1">Product Endnotes </a> Endnote List example in Product Backmatter. Clicking on the the preceding cross-reference should resolve to "Book Endnote List" section.</p>
					</section>
				</section>
				<section epub:type="keyword" id="P70004858060006D8" class="keywordset level1">
					<header>
						<h3 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">1.7 </span>Keyword List</h3>
					</header>
					<p>Keywordset is a container of the list of keywords used in the chapter. Keywords in the keyword list link back to keywords in the body text. Keywords in body text in turn map to glossary definitions.</p>
					<ol class="keywordlist">

						<li><p><a class="keyword" epub:type="keyword" id="P70004858060006D9" href="chapter04.xhtml#P7000485806000735">keyword 1</a></p></li>

						<li><p><a class="keyword" epub:type="keyword" id="P70004858060006DA" href="chapter04.xhtml#P7000485806000736">keyword 2</a></p></li>


						<li><p><a class="keyword" epub:type="keyword" id="P70004858060006DB" href="chapter04.xhtml#P7000485806000737">keyword 3</a></p></li>

						<li><p><a class="keyword" epub:type="keyword" id="P70004858060006DC" href="chapter04.xhtml#P7000485806000738">keyword 4 </a></p></li>
					</ol>
					<p>The keywords above should render as bold and with design icon. Clicking on each keyword in keylist will resolve to keyword in body text example in <a href="name-index.xhtml#P70004858060007CF"><span class="label" epub:type="label">Chapter </span><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">4</span></a>.</p>
				</section>
				<section epub:type="practice" id="P70004858060006DD" class="practice level1">
					<header>
						<h3 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">1.8 </span>Assessment List</h3>
					</header>
					<p>A container for assessment content, including optional title group, introductory text, instructions, and problems.</p>
					<div class="instructions"><p>These are instructions for the assessment section. These are instructions for the assessment section.</p></div>
					<ol class="practicelist">
						<li class="general-problem" id="P70004858060006DE"><div class="question" epub:type="question" id="P70004858060006DF">
								<p><a href="#P70004858060006EB">This is a general-problem that is auto-numbered by reading system. This links to answer 1 in answerlist later in chapter. </a></p>
							</div>
						</li>
						<li class="tf-problem" epub:type="true-false-problem" id="P70004858060006E0"><div class="question" epub:type="question" id="P70004858060006E1">
								<p><a href="#P70004858060006EC">This is a general-problem that is auto-numbered by reading system. This links to answer 1 in answerlist later in chapter.</a></p>
							</div>
						</li>
						<li class="fb-problem" epub:type="fill-in-the-blank-problem" id="P70004858060006E2"><div class="question" epub:type="question" id="P70004858060006E3">
								<p><a href="#P70004858060006ED">This is a general-problem that is auto-numbered by reading system. This links to answer 1 in answerlist later in chapter.</a></p>
							</div>
						</li>
						<li class="multiple-choice-problem" epub:type="multiple-choice-problem" id="P70004858060006E4"><div class="question" epub:type="question" id="P70004858060006E5">
								<p><a href="#P70004858060006EE">This is a general-problem that is auto-numbered by reading system. This links to answer 1 in answerlist later in chapter.</a></p>
								<ol class="choices">
									<li><p>Multiple choice option</p></li>
									<li><p>Multiple choice option</p></li>
									<li><p>Multiple choice option</p></li>
								</ol>
							</div>
						</li>
					</ol>
					<section id="P7000485806001456" class="practicediv level2">
						<header>
							<h4 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">1.8.1 </span>Practice Subsection</h4>
						</header>
						<ol class="practicelist">
							<li class="general-problem"><p>This is a general-problem that is auto-numbered by reading system appearing in a nested subsection</p></li>
							<li class="match-problem" epub:type="match-problem" id="P70004858060006E6">
								<div class="question" epub:type="question"><table>
										<tr>
											<td><ol class="matchlist">
													<li><p>This is matchlist 1.</p></li>
													<li><p>This is matchlist 1.</p></li>
												</ol></td>
											<td><ol class="matchlist">
													<li><p>This is matchlist 2.</p></li>
													<li><p>This is matchlist 2.</p></li>
												</ol></td>
										</tr>
									</table></div>
							</li>
						</ol>
					</section>
				</section>
				<section epub:type="bibliography" id="P70004858060006E7" class="bibliography level1">
					<header>
						<h3 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">1.9 </span>Bibliographic List</h3>
					</header>
					<p>Section containing the biblioentrylist, which is the list of works cited in the content, often listed at end of a chapter or product.</p>
					<ol class="biblioentrylist">
						<li class="biblioentry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="P70004858060006E8"><p>Hope, T. <cite>Medical Ethics: A Very Short Introduction</cite>. Oxford, NY: Oxford University Press, 2004.</p></li>

						<li class="biblioentry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="P70004858060006E9"><p>Larkin, G. L. and R. L. Fowler. “Essential Ethics for EMS: Cardinal Virtues and Core Principles.” <cite>Emerg Med Clin North Am</cite> 20 (2002): 887–911.</p></li>

					</ol>
				</section>
				<section id="P70004858060006EA" class="answerset level1">
					<header>
						<h3 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">1.10 </span>Answer Lists</h3>
					</header>
					<p>answerlist is an orderedlist that contains answers to questions posed in assessment sections.</p>
					<p>Current model is for answers to link back to questions but upcoming spec change may reverse this order such that questions link to answers.</p>
					<ol class="answerlist">
						<li class="answer" epub:type="answer" id="P70004858060006EB">
							<p>Answer text should render as lowercase alpha due to hardcoding of type="a".</p></li>
						<li class="answer" epub:type="answer" id="P70004858060006EC"><p>Answer text should render as lowercase alpha due to hardcoding of type="a".</p></li>
						<li class="answer" epub:type="answer" id="P70004858060006ED"><p>Answer text should render as lowercase alpha due to hardcoding of type="a".</p></li>
						<li class="answer" epub:type="answer" id="P70004858060006EE"><p>Answer text should render as lowercase alpha due to hardcoding of type="a".</p></li>
					</ol>
					<p>Note that the sublist is not setting on same line as top-level answerlist (i.e., 26.1 sets on line of its own). Current CSS is not expecting a listitem to contain a number whose only content is a nested list</p>
					<section id="P70004858060006EF" class="answersetdiv level2">
						<header>
							<h4 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">1.10.1 </span>Nested Answersetdiv Section </h4>
						</header>
						<ol class="answerlist">
							<li><p>This is answerlist text in a nested section. This is answerlist text in a nested section.</p></li>
							<li><p>This is answerlist text in a nested section. This is answerlist text in a nested section.</p></li>
							<li><p>This is answerlist text in a nested section. This is answerlist text in a nested section.</p></li>
							<li><p>This is answerlist text in a nested section. This is answerlist text in a nested section.</p></li>
						</ol>
					</section>
					<section id="P70004858060006F0" class="answersetdiv level2">
						<header>
							<h4 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">1.10.2 </span>Nested Answersetdiv Section </h4>
						</header>
						<ol class="answerlist dynamiclist">
							<li><p><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">1.1 </span>This is answerlist text in a nested section with span class="number". This is answerlist text in a nested section.</p></li>
							<li><p><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">1.2 </span>This is answerlist text in a nested section with span class="number". This is answerlist text in a nested section.</p></li>
							<li><p><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">1.3 </span>This is answerlist text in a nested section with span class="number". This is answerlist text in a nested section.</p></li>
						</ol>
					</section>
				</section>
				<section id="P70004858060016F0" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">1.11 </span>Staticlist</h3>
					</header>
					<p>A staticlist is an ol that contains numbering that is static and will never be re-numbered, regardless of the use case (e.g., example of an actual form)</p>
					<ol class="staticlist">
						<li><p><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">7.25.9.1</span>IRC 501(c)(9) exempts from Federal income ...</p></li>
					</ol>
				</section>
				<section id="P70004858060006F1" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">1.12 </span>Ordered lists</h3>
					</header>
					<p>These are stock orderedlists</p>
					<ol>
						<li><p>This is an ol with no class value. It should render as an arabic numbered list</p></li>
						<li><p>This is an ol with no class value. It should render as an arabic numbered list</p></li>
						<li><p>This is an ol with no class value. It should render as an arabic numbered list</p></li>
					</ol>
					<p>This is body text. This is body text. This is body text. This is body text. </p>
					<ol class="ol_4">
						<li><p>This is an ol with CSS set to loweralpha.</p></li>
						<li><p>This is an ol with CSS set to loweralpha.</p></li>
						<li><p>This is an ol with CSS set to loweralpha.</p></li>
					</ol>
					<ol class="ol_lower-alpha">
						<li><p>This is an ol with class set to ol_lower-alpha.</p></li>
						<li><p>This is an ol with class set to ol_lower-alpha.</p></li>
						<li><p>This is an ol with class set to ol_lower-alpha.</p></li>
					</ol>
					<ol class="ol_lower-roman">
						<li><p>This is an ol with type set to lowerroman.</p></li>
						<li><p>This is an ol with type set to lowerroman.</p></li>
						<li><p>This is an ol with type set to lowerroman.</p>
							<ol class="ol_upper-alpha">
								<li><p>This is an ol with type set to upperalpha.</p></li>
								<li><p>This is an ol with type set to upperalpha.</p></li>
								<li><p>This is an ol with type set to upperalpha.</p>
									<ol class="ol_upper-roman">
										<li><p>This is an ol with type set to upperroman.</p></li>
										<li><p>This is an ol with type set to upperroman.</p></li>
										<li><p>This is an ol with type set to upperroman.</p></li>
									</ol>
								</li>
							</ol>
						</li>
					</ol>
					<p>This is body text. This is body text. This is body text. This is body text. </p>
					<ol class="ol_5">
						<li><p>This is an ol with CSS set to upperroman.</p></li>
						<li><p>This is an ol with CSS set to upperroman.</p></li>
						<li><p>This is an ol with CSS set to upperroman.</p></li>
					</ol>
					<p>This is body text. This is body text. This is body text. This is body text. </p>
					<ol class="ol_6">
						<li><p>This is an ol with CSS set to square.</p></li>
						<li><p>This is an ol with CSS set to square.</p></li>
						<li><p>This is an ol with CSS set to square.</p></li>
					</ol>
					<p>This is body text. This is body text. This is body text. This is body text. </p>
					<ol class="ol_none">
						<li><p>This is an ol with CSS set to output nothing Should be un-numbered list.</p></li>
						<li><p>This is an ol with CSS set to output nothing Should be un-numbered list.</p></li>
						<li><p>This is an ol with CSS set to output nothing Should be un-numbered list.</p></li>
					</ol>
					<p>This is body text. This is body text. This is body text. This is body text. </p>
					<ol>
						<li><p>This is an ol with no class value. It will render as arabic due to nesting level and CSS</p>
							<ol>
								<li><p>This is an ol with no class value. It will render as uppercase alpha due to nesting level and CSS</p>
									<ol>
										<li><p>This is an ol with no class value. It will render as arabic due to nesting level and CSS</p></li>
										<li><p>This is an ol with no class value. </p></li>
										<li><p>This is an ol with no class value. </p>
											<ol>
												<li><p>This is an ol with no class value. It will render as lowercase alpha due to nesting level and CSS</p></li>
												<li><p>This is an ol with no class value. </p></li>
												<li><p>This is an ol with no class value. </p></li>
											</ol>
										</li>
									</ol>
								</li>
								<li><p>This is an ol with no class value. </p></li>
								<li><p>This is an ol with no class value. </p></li>
							</ol>
						</li>
						<li><p>This is an ol with no class value. </p></li>
						<li><p>This is an ol with no class value. </p></li>
					</ol>
				</section>
				<section id="P70004858060006F2" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">1.12A </span>Misc. List Testing</h3>
					</header>
					<ol class="objectivelist ol_lower-alpha">
						<li><p>This is an ol with class="objectivelist ol_lower-alpha"</p></li>
						<li><p>This is an ol with class="objectivelist ol_lower-alpha"</p></li>
					</ol>
					<ul class="objectivelist ul_none">
						<li><p>This is an ul with class="objectivelist ul_none" so should not output numbers</p></li>
						<li><p>This is an ul with class="objectivelist ul_none" so should not output numbers</p></li>
					</ul>
					<ol class="objectivelist dynamiclist">
						<li><p><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">1.1 </span>This is an ol with class="objectivelist dynamiclist" so should not output numbers because numbers are already present in a span</p></li>
						<li><p><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">1.2 </span>This is an ol with class="objectivelist dynamiclist" so should not output numbers because numbers are already present in a span</p></li>
					</ol>
					<ol class="answerlist ol_lower-alpha">
						<li><p>This is an ol with class="answerlist ol_lower-alpha"</p></li>
						<li><p>This is an ol with class="answerlist ol_lower-alpha"</p></li>
					</ol>
					<ul class="ul_none">
						<li><p>This is an ul with class="answerlist ul_none" so should not output numbers</p></li>
						<li><p>This is an ul with class="answerlist ul_none" so should not output numbers</p></li>
					</ul>
					<ol class="answerlist dynamiclist">
						<li><p><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">1.1 </span>This is an ol with class="answerlist dynamiclist" so should not output numbers because numbers are already present in a span</p></li>
						<li><p><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">1.2 </span>This is an ol with class="answerlist dynamiclist" so should not output numbers because numbers are already present in a span</p></li>
					</ol>
					<ol class="steplist ol_lower-alpha">
						<li><p>This is an ol with class="steplist ol_lower-alpha"</p></li>
						<li><p>This is an ol with class="steplist ol_lower-alpha"</p></li>
					</ol>
					<ul class="ul_none">
						<li><p>This is an ul with class="steplist ul_none" so should not output numbers</p></li>
						<li><p>This is an ul with class="steplist ul_none" so should not output numbers</p></li>
					</ul>
					<ol class="steplist dynamiclist">
						<li><p><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">1.1 </span>This is an ol with class="steplist dynamiclist" so should not output numbers because numbers are already present in a span</p></li>
						<li><p><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">1.2 </span>This is an ol with class="steplist dynamiclist" so should not output numbers because numbers are already present in a span</p></li>
					</ol>
					<ol class="objectivelist staticlist">
						<li><p><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">1.1 </span>This is an ol with class="objectivelist staticlist" so should not output numbers because numbers are already present in a span</p></li>
						<li><p><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">1.2 </span>This is an ol with class="objectivelist staticlist" so should not output numbers because numbers are already present in a span</p></li>
					</ol>
				</section>
				<section epub:type="conclusion" id="P70004858060006F3" class="conclusion level1">
					<header>
						<h3 class="title" epub:type="title" id="P70004858060006F4"><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">1.13 </span>Chapter Summary</h3>
					</header>
					<p>This is chapter summary text. This is chapter summary text.This is chapter summary text.This is chapter summary text.This is chapter summary text.</p>
					<section id="P70004858060006F5" class="level2">
						<header><h4 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">1.13.1 </span>Nested Section</h4></header>
						<p>This is body text. This is body text. This is body text. This is body text. This is body text. </p>
						<p>This is body text. This is body text. This is body text. This is body text. This is body text. </p>
						<p>This is body text. This is body text. This is body text. This is body text. This is body text. </p>
						<ol>
							<li><p>This is an ol listitem</p></li>
							<li><p>This is an ol listitem</p></li>
							<li><p>This is an ol listitem</p></li>
						</ol>
						<section id="P70004858060006F6" class="level3">
							<header><h5 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">1.13.1.1 </span>Nested Nested Section</h5></header>
							<p>This is body text. This is body text. This is body text. This is body text. This is body text. </p>
							<p>This is body text. This is body text. This is body text. This is body text. This is body text. </p>
							<p>This is body text. This is body text. This is body text. This is body text. This is body text. </p>
							<ol>
								<li><p>This is an ol listitem</p></li>
								<li><p>This is an ol listitem</p></li>
								<li><p>This is an ol listitem</p></li>
							</ol>
							<section id="P70004858060006F7" class="level4">
								<header><h6 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">1.13.1.1.1 </span>Nested Nested Nested Nested Section</h6></header>
								<p>This is body text. This is body text. This is body text. This is body text. This is body text. </p>
								<p>This is body text. This is body text. This is body text. This is body text. This is body text. </p>
								<p>This is body text. This is body text. This is body text. This is body text. This is body text. </p>
								<ol>
									<li><p>This is an ol listitem</p></li>
									<li><p>This is an ol listitem</p></li>
									<li><p>This is an ol listitem</p></li>
								</ol>
								<section id="P70004858060006F8" class="level5">
									<header><h6 class="title" epub:type="title"><span class="number" epub:type="ordinal">1.13.1.1.1.1 </span>Nested Nested Nested Nested Nested Section</h6></header>
									<p>This is body text. This is body text. This is body text. This is body text. This is body text. </p>
									<p>This is body text. This is body text. This is body text. This is body text. This is body text. </p>
									<p>This is body text. This is body text. This is body text. This is body text. This is body text. </p>
									<ol>
										<li><p>This is an ol listitem</p></li>
										<li><p>This is an ol listitem</p></li>
										<li><p>This is an ol listitem</p></li>
									</ol>
								</section>
							</section>
						</section>
					</section>
				</section>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
