<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
	xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 4: Linked Content</title>
		<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" title="day" href="../css/main.css" />
		<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="night" href="../css/theme/night.css" />
		<link rel="alternate stylesheet" type="text/css" title="sepia" href="../css/theme/sepia.css" />
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter">
		<section epub:type="chapter" id="P7000485806000731">
			<span title="10" epub:type="pagebreak" id="P7000485806000732"></span>
			<header>
				<h1 epub:type="title"><span epub:type="label">Chapter</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal">3:</span> Linked Content</h1>
			</header>
			<section class="bodymatter" id="d6e4925" aria-label="Chapter body">
				<p>The <code>a</code> element can represent a hyperlink or an anchor. If the a element has an href
					attribute, then it represents a hyperlink. If the a element has no href attribute, then the
					element represents an anchor. </p>
				<section id="P7000485806000733" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3>3.1 General Cross-reference</h3>
					</header>
					<p>This is a cross-reference to <a class="xref" href="figures-tables.xhtml"><span
								epub:type="label">Chapter </span><span epub:type="ordinal">3</span></a>.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="P7000485806000734" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3>3.2 Keyword Cross-reference</h3>
					</header>
					<p>in-line content indicating a key word or phrase. keywords typically appear in the chapter
						bodymatter content but may also appear in sections such as <a
							href="body-content.xhtml#P700048580600077A">keywordset</a>.</p>
					<p>This product includes the most current information on the <a epub:type="keyword"
							id="P7000485806000735" href="glossary.xhtml#P70004858060007B2">keyword 1</a> and <a
							epub:type="keyword" id="P7000485806000736" href="glossary.xhtml#P70004858060007B3"
							>keyword 2.</a> It also includes updates on related court cases and a discussion of
						inclusive practices based on the most salient factors affecting education today.</p>
					<p>It should be said that the <a epub:type="keyword" id="P7000485806000737"
							href="glossary.xhtml#P70004858060007B4">keyword 3</a> is the number one cause of <a
							epub:type="keyword" id="P7000485806000738" href="glossary.xhtml#P70004858060007B5"
							>keyword 4</a>.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="P7000485806000739" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3>3.3 marginalia</h3>
					</header>
					<p>Marginalia is an anchor with a data-href attribute. It is not currently being applied as
						part of the spec. Its purpose is to provide a vertical alignment point in the text for a
						formatting program to reference for placement of the marginal note. Current CSS and Reading
						System makes no use of this capability so we have not required vendors to apply it. In some
						print composition workflows, the anchor is useful. We are currently evaluating whether to
						apply it in the print workflow.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="P700048580600073A" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3>3.4 Bibliographic reference</h3>
					</header>
					<p>The United States becomes more ethnically and linguistically diverse every year. More than
						90 percent of new residents come from non-English-speaking countries. The number of students
						with non-English-speaking backgrounds represents the fastest growing group of this
						population. In the last decade, the total student enrollment in public schools increased by
						only 14 percent, while the number of English learners grew 70 percent and is projected to
						grow even more <a epub:type="biblioref" href="bibliography02.xhtml#P70004858060007AC"
							>(Abernathy, 2007)</a>. The 2000 U.S. Census identified 20 percent of school-age children
						as non-native English speakers).</p>
					<p>The National League for Nursing (NLN) recognized that if nurses are to become effective
						users of the electronic health records, nurses need to be educated. The NLN called for
						reform to nursing education to promote quality education that prepares technologysavvy
						nurses who can use electronic health records. The NLN Board of Governors (<a
							epub:type="biblioref" href="bibliography02.xhtml#P70004858060007AD">2008</a>) issued a
						position statement calling for both prelicensure and graduate nursing education programs to
						provide EHR education and hands on experiences for students.</p>
					<p>Well-done and appropriate assessments are the basis for all successful special education and
						transition programming. In order to ensure appropriate testing practices, the IDEA addressed
						assessment concerns in the 1990, 1997, and 2004 amendments. The IDEA of 1990 required
						Individualized Education Program (IEP) assessments to be unbiased and given in the native
						language of the student. In addition, placement in special education was to be based upon a
						multifactored evaluation that included multiple assessments across more than one environment
							(<a epub:type="biblioref" href="bibliography02.xhtml#P70004858060007AE">C. K. Bennett,
							Journal of Staff Development, Winter 1984</a>).</p>
				</section>
				<section id="P700048580600073B" class="level1">
					<span title="11" epub:type="pagebreak" id="P700048580600073C"></span>
					<header>
						<h3>3.5 Footnote Reference</h3>
					</header>
					<p>See footnote reference example in the chapter on <a href="asides.xhtml#P700048580600070C"
							>Asides</a></p>
				</section>
				<section id="P700048580600073D" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3>3.6 Rearnote reference</h3>
					</header>
					<p>See rearnote reference example in the chapter on <a href="asides.xhtml#P700048580600070D"
							>Asides</a></p>
				</section>
				<section id="P700048580600073E" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3>3.7 Footnote reference on opener<a epub:type="noteref" id="r__P700048580600074A"
								href="#P700048580600074A">*</a></h3>
					</header>
					<aside epub:type="footnote" id="P700048580600074A">
						<p><a epub:type="referrer" href="#r__P700048580600074A">*</a> The “Early Bird” pattern, in
							J. Bergin: “Fourteen pedagogical patterns for teaching computer science”,
								<cite>Proceedings of the Fifth European Conference on Pattern Languages of
								Programs</cite> (EuroPLop 2000), Irsee, Germany, July 2000.</p>
					</aside>
					<p> Footnote references on part, chapter, and section openers have their own subclass for when
						they must present differently than the footnotes in the rest of the part or chapter. In
						print, the footnote is sometimes "un-numbered" (not numbered, not symboled). We do not
						currently have a standard convention for how to render these un-numbered footnotes digitally
						so they are treated as a symboled footnote.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="P700048580600073F" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3>3.8 Hyperlink to internet content</h3>
					</header>
					<p>Professor Fair’s U.S. and multicountry models are available for use on the Internet free of
						charge. The address is <a class="ulink" href="http://fairmodel.econ.yale.edu"
							>http:/<wbr></wbr>/<wbr></wbr>fairmodel.econ.yale.edu</a>. Many teachers have found that
						having students work with the U.S. model on the Internet is a useful complement to an
						introductory macroeconomics course.</p>
					<p>See also <a href="#P7000485806000745">url-obsolete</a> and span class="url-example".</p>
				</section>
				<section id="P7000485806000740" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3>3.9 Webresource</h3>
					</header>
					<p>A webresource represents Pearson trackable web asset specific to a Pearson product. Contrast
						webresource with a regular ulink. In the example below, www.myeconlab.com is the
						webresource. webresource maps to ulink in pxe basic</p>
					<p>Log onto Pearson's <a href="http://www.myeconlab.com" class="ulink">www.myeconlab.com</a> to
						learn more.</p>
					<p><span class="leadin">Note:</span> A general Pearson website such as pearsoned.com is a
						marketing website so is a regular ulink, not a webresource.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="P7000485806000741" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3>3.10 Objective cross-reference</h3>
					</header>
					<p>Objective cross-reference is a hyperlink to a learning objective in the chapter
						objectivelist. It is not currently being applied as part of the spec.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="P7000485806000742" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3>3.11 Page cross-reference</h3>
					</header>
					<p>A pageref class is a link to a page number. Used in legacy conversions from a print version
						of the content. In the example below, "15" is the page cross-reference.</p>
					<p>When you click on the link for page <a href="#P700048580600073C">11</a>, it will jump to <a
							href="#P700048580600073C">section 4.5</a>.</p>
				</section>
				<section id="P7000485806000743" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3>3.12 Index-locator</h3>
					</header>
					<p>Reference to a location within the body of the work but outside any index. See <a
							href="subject-index.xhtml#P70004858060007BB">index chapter</a> for this example.</p>
					<section id="P7000485806000744" class="level2">
						<header>
							<h4>3.12a termref</h4>
						</header>
						<p>See Also cross-reference is wrapped in span epub:type="index-xref-related" and the index
							term being referenced should be marked using a hyperlink with class="termref" (e.g., a
							epub:type="termref" href="#index_advertising_1530". See <a
								href="subject-index.xhtml#P70004858060007BB">index chapter</a> for this example.</p>
					</section>
					<section id="P7000485806000745" class="level2">
						<header>
							<h4>3.13 Obsolete URL</h4>
						</header>
						<p>Used where the author refers to a website or page which is no longer accessible. Compare
							to ulink and url-example.</p>
						<p><span class="strong">Cover Art:</span> © Chin Yuen. <a>www.chinyuenart.com</a>
							<span>The url is not tagged in the output because it links to a site that no longer
								exists. Ideally this content would be updated to a new url or the url would be removed
								so that the User doesn't wonder why some url's are hyperlinked and some are not. There
								is no formatting distinction for obsolete url's. It formats as normal text.</span></p>
					</section>
					<section id="P7000485806000746" class="level2">
						<span title="12" epub:type="pagebreak" id="P7000485806000747"></span>
						<header>
							<h4>3.14 Index Anchors</h4>
						</header>
						<p>This section starts on page 16 and contains endpoints for the <a
								href="subject-index.xhtml#P70004858060007BB">index chapter</a></p>
						<p>Index entry - first instance</p>
						<p>the following text included to occupy spaceNe platonem molestiae voluptaria quo, mel te
							erat noluisse. Cu eum causae epicuri expetenda. Pro erat iusto dissentiunt ea, et his
							justo urbanitas reprimique. Ius ea nusquam placerat. Veri mutat dolore usu no, has ullum
							virtute eu. Cum no singulis voluptaria. Sea latine alterum corrumpit ex, ipsum tritani
							suscipit ea pri. Tacimates constituto id duo. Te dolorem facilis invidunt his, quot
							percipitur contentiones ei est, pro te soleat gloriatur efficiendi. Duis facer at vim. An
							corpora blandit facilisi eam. His ei oratio conceptam efficiantur, et clita
							conclusionemque pri. Iusto utamur eam te. Pro an consul invidunt scripserit. Per in
							graeco quodsi pertinacia. Cum in habemus epicurei forensibus. Definiebas repudiandae eos
							te, sed at scripta voluptua, eruditi conceptam constituam cu eum. Solum dicat voluptua
							vel et. Per alia melius perfecto ex, quo cu veritus minimum definitiones. Id qui utroque
							partiendo consequat. Solum integre id quo, ea omnesque eleifend mei. Meis persecuti
							abhorreant ut has, vim te mazim interpretaris. At alia recteque elaboraret mei, ut has
							prima recusabo invenire. Cu nam case viris soleat, scripta complectitur mediocritatem quo
							an. Molestiae assentior at qui. In cum oblique salutandi. Ad aliquid inermis qui, nec
							democritum consequuntur ad, eius voluptua vim cu. Has oratio dolorem ne. Dolor iisque
							voluptatibus ea has, ea usu percipitur contentiones, his feugiat sanctus cu. Rationibus
							constituto cum id, doctus recteque te sit. Per ei eros dolor, ius regione laoreet
							lucilius te, sanctus accusamus adipiscing id mei. Id vel natum ignota graeci. Case
							adversarium in est, stet inani constituam in usu, usu iusto utroque cotidieque in. Per at
							hinc iudicabit appellantur, qualisque dissentias qui ne, in prima accusam recusabo vis.
							Ius sanctus menandri forensibus an. Eu per wisi sonet apeirian, has ex error efficiantur.
							Eos at movet dictas constituto. Ad per quas aperiam, eos an velit clita, debet offendit
							conceptam at per. Eu enim nullam disputando vix. Usu ea omnes virtute, mei ea dicat
							expetenda reprehendunt. Ea vis libris legendos, ei mutat nominavi nam. Nusquam eligendi
							sententiae eu mea. Et nec assentior elaboraret scribentur, at eius laudem sit. Ad ius
							noster aperiam, appareat scripserit per ex, elit ignota et est. Pri no sumo animal
							minimum, nibh explicari qui ut. Usu eu corrumpit constituam, in integre legendos
							periculis mei. Cum quando periculis adolescens cu, ei altera oblique nusquam qui. Eu
							forensibus expetendis eum. Utamur efficiantur cu his, falli nullam aperiri ex eum. His at
							alii menandri. Saperet deleniti pertinax ut mei. Cum sonet option conclusionemque et,
							dico deleniti repudiandae te eum. </p>
						<span title="13" epub:type="pagebreak" id="P7000485806000748"></span>
						<p>This is the start of page 13</p>
						<p>Index entry - second instance</p>
						<p>the following text included to occupy spaceNe platonem molestiae voluptaria quo, mel te
							erat noluisse. Cu eum causae epicuri expetenda. Pro erat iusto dissentiunt ea, et his
							justo urbanitas reprimique. Ius ea nusquam placerat. Veri mutat dolore usu no, has ullum
							virtute eu. Cum no singulis voluptaria. Sea latine alterum corrumpit ex, ipsum tritani
							suscipit ea pri. Tacimates constituto id duo. Te dolorem facilis invidunt his, quot
							percipitur contentiones ei est, pro te soleat gloriatur efficiendi. Duis facer at vim. An
							corpora blandit facilisi eam. His ei oratio conceptam efficiantur, et clita
							conclusionemque pri. Iusto utamur eam te. Pro an consul invidunt scripserit. Per in
							graeco quodsi pertinacia. Cum in habemus epicurei forensibus. Definiebas repudiandae eos
							te, sed at scripta voluptua, eruditi conceptam constituam cu eum. Solum dicat voluptua
							vel et. Per alia melius perfecto ex, quo cu veritus minimum definitiones. Id qui utroque
							partiendo consequat. Solum integre id quo, ea omnesque eleifend mei. Meis persecuti
							abhorreant ut has, vim te mazim interpretaris. At alia recteque elaboraret mei, ut has
							prima recusabo invenire. Cu nam case viris soleat, scripta complectitur mediocritatem quo
							an. Molestiae assentior at qui. In cum oblique salutandi. Ad aliquid inermis qui, nec
							democritum consequuntur ad, eius voluptua vim cu. Has oratio dolorem ne. Dolor iisque
							voluptatibus ea has, ea usu percipitur contentiones, his feugiat sanctus cu. Rationibus
							constituto cum id, doctus recteque te sit. Per ei eros dolor, ius regione laoreet
							lucilius te, sanctus accusamus adipiscing id mei. Id vel natum ignota graeci. Case
							adversarium in est, stet inani constituam in usu, usu iusto utroque cotidieque in. Per at
							hinc iudicabit appellantur, qualisque dissentias qui ne, in prima accusam recusabo vis.
							Ius sanctus menandri forensibus an. Eu per wisi sonet apeirian, has ex error efficiantur.
							Eos at movet dictas constituto. Ad per quas aperiam, eos an velit clita, debet offendit
							conceptam at per. Eu enim nullam disputando vix. Usu ea omnes virtute, mei ea dicat
							expetenda reprehendunt. Ea vis libris legendos, ei mutat nominavi nam. Nusquam eligendi
							sententiae eu mea. Et nec assentior elaboraret scribentur, at eius laudem sit. Ad ius
							noster aperiam, appareat scripserit per ex, elit ignota et est. Pri no sumo animal
							minimum, nibh explicari qui ut. Usu eu corrumpit constituam, in integre legendos
							periculis mei. Cum quando periculis adolescens cu, ei altera oblique nusquam qui. Eu
							forensibus expetendis eum. Utamur efficiantur cu his, falli nullam aperiri ex eum. His at
							alii menandri. Saperet deleniti pertinax ut mei. Cum sonet option conclusionemque et,
							dico deleniti repudiandae te eum. </p>
						<span title="14" epub:type="pagebreak" id="P7000485806000749"></span>
						<p>This is the start of page 14</p>
						<p>Index entry - third instance</p>
					</section>
				</section>
				<section id="P7000485806000743_2" class="level1">
					<header>
						<h3>3.13 Styling of linked content</h3>
					</header>
					<p>The example css supports the following classes for the a element:</p>
					<ul>
						<li><p>xref</p></li>
						<li><p>keyword</p></li>
						<li><p>marginalia</p></li>
						<li><p>biblioref</p></li>
						<li><p>noteref_footnote</p></li>
						<li><p>noteref_rearnote</p></li>
						<li><p>noteref_opener</p></li>
						<li><p>ulink</p></li>
						<li><p>objective</p></li>
						<li><p>pageref</p></li>
						<li><p>index-locator, termref</p></li>
						<li><p>url-obsolete</p></li>
						<li><p><a href="asides.xhtml#P70004858060006F9">annoref</a></p></li>
						<li><p>url-example</p></li>
					</ul>
				</section>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
